ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture Overview

This document describes the production architecture of the Music Store Assistant, a LangGraph-based customer support chatbot for "Algorhythm" music store.

## System Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Client["🖥️ Client Layer"]
        chat["Customer Chat UI<br/>(index.html)"]
        admin["Admin Dashboard<br/>(admin.html)"]
    end

    subgraph API["⚡ FastAPI Backend (api.py)"]
        chatEndpoint["POST /chat"]
        pendingEndpoint["GET /admin/pending"]
        approveEndpoint["POST /admin/approve"]
        rejectEndpoint["POST /admin/reject"]
    end

    subgraph Graph["🧠 LangGraph Engine (graph.py)"]
        supervisor{{"Supervisor<br/>(Router)"}}
        music["Music Expert"]
        support["Support Rep"]
        musicTools[["🔧 Music Tools"]]
        safeTools[["🔧 Safe Tools"]]
        hitlTools[["⚠️ HITL Tools"]]
        checkpointer[("MemorySaver<br/>Checkpointer")]
    end

    subgraph Data["💾 Data Layer"]
        chinook[("Chinook DB<br/>(SQLite)")]
    end

    subgraph External["☁️ External Services"]
        llm["LLM Provider<br/>(configurable)"]
        langsmith["LangSmith<br/>Observability"]
    end

    chat -->|"POST /chat"| chatEndpoint
    admin -->|"GET /admin/pending"| pendingEndpoint
    admin -->|"POST /admin/approve"| approveEndpoint
    admin -->|"POST /admin/reject"| rejectEndpoint

    chatEndpoint --> supervisor
    approveEndpoint --> checkpointer
    rejectEndpoint --> checkpointer

    supervisor -->|"music query"| music
    supervisor -->|"support query"| support
    
    music --> musicTools
    support --> safeTools
    support -->|"refund request"| hitlTools
    
    musicTools --> chinook
    safeTools --> chinook
    hitlTools --> chinook

    supervisor --> checkpointer
    music --> checkpointer
    support --> checkpointer

    supervisor -.-> llm
    music -.-> llm
    support -.-> llm

    Graph -.->|"traces"| langsmith

    style supervisor fill:#4a90d9,stroke:#2d5a87,color:#fff
    style music fill:#50c878,stroke:#2d7a4a,color:#fff
    style support fill:#f5a623,stroke:#c77d0a,color:#fff
    style hitlTools fill:#e74c3c,stroke:#a93226,color:#fff
```

## State Schema

The graph maintains typed state across the conversation:

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class State {
        +List~BaseMessage~ messages
        +int customer_id
        +str route
    }
    
    class BaseMessage {
        &lt;&lt;abstract&gt;&gt;
        +str content
        +str type
    }
    
    class HumanMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "human"
    }
    
    class AIMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "ai"
        +List tool_calls
    }
    
    class ToolMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "tool"
        +str tool_call_id
    }
    
    State --> BaseMessage : messages
    BaseMessage <|-- HumanMessage
    BaseMessage <|-- AIMessage
    BaseMessage <|-- ToolMessage
```

## Request Flow

### Customer Chat Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as User
    participant UI as index.html
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant S as Supervisor
    participant W as Worker (Music/Support)
    participant T as Tools
    participant DB as Chinook DB

    U->>UI: Types message
    UI->>API: POST /chat {message, thread_id}
    API->>S: graph.invoke(state, config)
    
    S->>S: Classify intent
    alt Music Query
        S->>W: Route to Music Expert
    else Support Query
        S->>W: Route to Support Rep
    end
    
    W->>T: Call tool(s)
    T->>DB: SQL Query
    DB-->>T: Results
    T-->>W: Tool response
    W->>W: Generate response
    W-->>API: Final state
    API-->>UI: {response, status}
    UI-->>U: Display message
```

### HITL Refund Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Customer
    participant UI as Chat UI
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant SR as Support Rep
    participant HITL as HITL Gate
    participant Admin as Admin UI
    participant CP as Checkpointer

    C->>UI: "Refund invoice 98"
    UI->>API: POST /chat
    API->>SR: Process request
    SR->>HITL: process_refund(98)
    
    Note over HITL: ⛔ INTERRUPT
    
    HITL->>CP: Save state
    API-->>UI: {status: "pending_approval"}
    UI-->>C: "Awaiting approval..."

    loop Polling
        Admin->>API: GET /admin/pending
        API-->>Admin: [{invoice_id: 98, ...}]
    end

    alt Approved
        Admin->>API: POST /admin/approve
        API->>CP: Resume graph
        CP->>HITL: Continue execution
        HITL->>HITL: Execute refund
        HITL-->>SR: Tool result
        SR-->>API: "Refund processed"
        API-->>UI: Success response
    else Rejected
        Admin->>API: POST /admin/reject
        API->>CP: Inject rejection
        CP-->>SR: Rejection message
        SR-->>API: "Refund denied"
        API-->>UI: Rejection response
    end
```

## Graph Structure

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Supervisor
    
    Supervisor --> MusicExpert: route = "music"
    Supervisor --> SupportRep: route = "support"
    
    MusicExpert --> MusicTools: needs_tools
    MusicTools --> MusicExpert: tool_result
    MusicExpert --> [*]: done
    
    SupportRep --> SafeTools: safe_operation
    SafeTools --> SupportRep: tool_result
    
    SupportRep --> HITLGate: refund_request
    
    state HITLGate {
        [*] --> Interrupted
        Interrupted --> Approved: admin_approve
        Interrupted --> Rejected: admin_reject
    }
    
    HITLGate --> RefundTools: approved
    RefundTools --> SupportRep: tool_result
    HITLGate --> SupportRep: rejected
    
    SupportRep --> [*]: done
```

## Component Details

### Supervisor Node

The supervisor acts as an intent classifier, routing requests to specialized workers.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    input["User Message"]
    supervisor{{"Supervisor<br/>GPT-4o-mini"}}
    music["Music Expert"]
    support["Support Rep"]
    
    input --> supervisor
    supervisor -->|"artist, album,<br/>song, genre"| music
    supervisor -->|"refund, invoice,<br/>account, help"| support
    
    style supervisor fill:#4a90d9,color:#fff
```

**Routing Rules:**
1. Music keywords (artist, album, song, genre) → `music`
2. Support keywords (refund, invoice, account) → `support`
3. Ambiguous follow-ups → Continue previous topic
4. Greetings → `support` (default)

### Music Expert Node

Read-only access to the music catalog. Designed for high creativity (temperature=0.7).

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `get_albums_by_artist` | Find albums by artist name |
| `get_tracks_by_artist` | Find songs by artist name |
| `check_for_songs` | Search tracks by title |
| `get_artists_by_genre` | Find artists in a genre |
| `list_genres` | Show all available genres |

### Support Rep Node

Handles authenticated customer operations. Streaming enabled for better UX.

| Tool | Approval | Purpose |
|------|----------|---------|
| `get_customer_info` | ✅ Auto | Look up customer profile |
| `get_invoice` | ✅ Auto | Retrieve invoice details |
| `process_refund` | ⚠️ HITL | Process a refund |

### Model Factory

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    env["Environment Variable"]
    factory["get_model_for_role()"]
    
    subgraph Providers
        openai["OpenAI<br/>gpt-*"]
        anthropic["Anthropic<br/>claude-*"]
        google["Google<br/>gemini-*"]
        deepseek["DeepSeek<br/>deepseek-*"]
    end
    
    env --> factory
    factory -->|"gpt-4o-mini"| openai
    factory -->|"claude-3-5-haiku"| anthropic
    factory -->|"gemini-2.0-flash"| google
    factory -->|"deepseek-chat"| deepseek
```

Provider is auto-detected from model name prefix.

## Security Considerations

### Authentication Model

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    session["Authenticated Session"]
    config["Config Object"]
    state["Graph State"]
    tools["Support Tools"]
    
    session -->|"customer_id: 16"| config
    config -->|"injected"| state
    state -->|"scoped queries"| tools
    
    style session fill:#50c878,color:#fff
```

Customer identity is injected via configuration, simulating JWT-style session auth. The customer ID comes from the application layer, not user input.

### Tool Safety Classification

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph ReadOnly["✅ Read-Only (Public Catalog)"]
        m1["get_albums_by_artist"]
        m2["get_tracks_by_artist"]
        m3["check_for_songs"]
        m4["get_artists_by_genre"]
        m5["list_genres"]
    end
    
    subgraph ScopedRead["✅ Read-Only (Scoped by customer_id)"]
        s1["get_customer_info"]
        s2["get_invoice"]
    end
    
    subgraph Sensitive["⚠️ Write Operation (HITL Required)"]
        h1["process_refund"]
    end
    
    style ReadOnly fill:#e8f5e9,color:#1b5e20
    style ScopedRead fill:#e3f2fd,color:#0d47a1
    style Sensitive fill:#ffebee,color:#b71c1c
```

## Observability

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    lg["LangGraph"]
    langsmith["LangSmith"]
    traces["Traces"]
    tokens["Token Usage"]
    costs["Cost Reports"]
    
    lg -->|"all LLM calls"| langsmith
    langsmith --> traces
    langsmith --> tokens
    tokens --> costs
    
    style langsmith fill:#7c3aed,color:#fff
```

### CI/CD Cost Tracking

Each CI run is tagged with `run-{github_run_id}` for accurate cost attribution:

```bash
# Query costs for a specific run
uv run python scripts/report_test_costs.py --tag "run-12345678"
```

## Configuration Reference

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | (required) | OpenAI API key |
| `GOOGLE_API_KEY` | (required) | For Gemini models (Music Expert default) |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | (optional) | For Claude models |
| `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` | (optional) | For DeepSeek models |
| `SUPERVISOR_MODEL` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Model for routing |
| `MUSIC_EXPERT_MODEL` | `gemini-2.0-flash` | Model for music queries |
| `SUPPORT_REP_MODEL` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Model for support |
| `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY` | (required) | LangSmith API key |
| `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2` | `true` | Enable tracing |
| `LANGCHAIN_PROJECT` | `music-store-assistant` | LangSmith project |

## Future Considerations

See [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/scarolan/music_store_assistant/issues) for known limitations:

- **#8** - CLI gets wedged after denied refund
- **#9** - Support agent can be redirected to non-music discussions
- **#10** - No built-in limits on conversation length or token usage

Commit message:

feat: Implement secure context_schema pattern for customer_id
BREAKING CHANGE: customer_id is no longer in graph state

This implements the LangGraph context_schema pattern for secure
runtime context injection, replacing the previous approach of
putting customer_id in state.

## Security Improvement
- customer_id is now passed via context= parameter at invocation
- Nodes access it via Runtime[CustomerContext]
- Tools access it via ToolRuntime[CustomerContext] (hidden from LLM schema)
- LLM cannot manipulate customer_id through state or tool parameters

## Changes

### Core Implementation
- src/state.py: Added CustomerContext dataclass, removed customer_id from State
- src/graph.py: Added context_schema=CustomerContext to StateGraph
- src/graph.py: Updated support_rep node to use Runtime[CustomerContext]
- src/tools/support.py: All 3 tools now use ToolRuntime[CustomerContext]

### API & CLI
- src/api.py: All graph.invoke() calls now pass context= separately
- src/cli.py: Updated to use context= pattern

### Tests
- tests/conftest.py: Updated fixtures to return (config, context) tuples
- tests/test_*.py: All tests updated to pass context= separately
- tests/test_state.py: Added tests verifying customer_id NOT in State
- tests/test_support_tools.py: Added security test for hidden customer_id

### Documentation
- ARCHITECTURE.md: Updated State diagram and security section
- README.md: Updated Python API example
- .github/copilot-instructions.md: Full context_schema documentation

All 74 tests pass.

ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture Overview

This document describes the production architecture of the Music Store Assistant, a LangGraph-based customer support chatbot for "Algorhythm" music store.

## System Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Client["🖥️ Client Layer"]
        chat["Customer Chat UI<br/>(index.html)"]
        admin["Admin Dashboard<br/>(admin.html)"]
    end

    subgraph API["⚡ FastAPI Backend (api.py)"]
        chatEndpoint["POST /chat"]
        pendingEndpoint["GET /admin/pending"]
        approveEndpoint["POST /admin/approve"]
        rejectEndpoint["POST /admin/reject"]
    end

    subgraph Graph["🧠 LangGraph Engine (graph.py)"]
        supervisor{{"Supervisor<br/>(Router)"}}
        music["Music Expert"]
        support["Support Rep"]
        musicTools[["🔧 Music Tools"]]
        safeTools[["🔧 Safe Tools"]]
        hitlTools[["⚠️ HITL Tools"]]
        checkpointer[("MemorySaver<br/>Checkpointer")]
    end

    subgraph Data["💾 Data Layer"]
        chinook[("Chinook DB<br/>(SQLite)")]
    end

    subgraph External["☁️ External Services"]
        llm["LLM Provider<br/>(configurable)"]
        langsmith["LangSmith<br/>Observability"]
    end

    chat -->|"POST /chat"| chatEndpoint
    admin -->|"GET /admin/pending"| pendingEndpoint
    admin -->|"POST /admin/approve"| approveEndpoint
    admin -->|"POST /admin/reject"| rejectEndpoint

    chatEndpoint --> supervisor
    approveEndpoint --> checkpointer
    rejectEndpoint --> checkpointer

    supervisor -->|"music query"| music
    supervisor -->|"support query"| support
    
    music --> musicTools
    support --> safeTools
    support -->|"refund request"| hitlTools
    
    musicTools --> chinook
    safeTools --> chinook
    hitlTools --> chinook

    supervisor --> checkpointer
    music --> checkpointer
    support --> checkpointer

    supervisor -.-> llm
    music -.-> llm
    support -.-> llm

    Graph -.->|"traces"| langsmith

    style supervisor fill:#4a90d9,stroke:#2d5a87,color:#fff
    style music fill:#50c878,stroke:#2d7a4a,color:#fff
    style support fill:#f5a623,stroke:#c77d0a,color:#fff
    style hitlTools fill:#e74c3c,stroke:#a93226,color:#fff
```

## State Schema

The graph maintains typed state across the conversation. **Note:** `customer_id` is NOT in State - it's passed via `context_schema` for security.

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class State {
        +List~BaseMessage~ messages
        +str route
    }
    
    class CustomerContext {
        +int customer_id
        &lt;&lt;dataclass&gt;&gt;
    }
    
    class BaseMessage {
        &lt;&lt;abstract&gt;&gt;
        +str content
        +str type
    }
    
    class HumanMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "human"
    }
    
    class AIMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "ai"
        +List tool_calls
    }
    
    class ToolMessage {
        +str content
        +type = "tool"
        +str tool_call_id
    }
    
    State --> BaseMessage : messages
    BaseMessage <|-- HumanMessage
    BaseMessage <|-- AIMessage
    BaseMessage <|-- ToolMessage
```

## Request Flow

### Customer Chat Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as User
    participant UI as index.html
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant S as Supervisor
    participant W as Worker (Music/Support)
    participant T as Tools
    participant DB as Chinook DB

    U->>UI: Types message
    UI->>API: POST /chat {message, thread_id}
    API->>S: graph.invoke(state, config)
    
    S->>S: Classify intent
    alt Music Query
        S->>W: Route to Music Expert
    else Support Query
        S->>W: Route to Support Rep
    end
    
    W->>T: Call tool(s)
    T->>DB: SQL Query
    DB-->>T: Results
    T-->>W: Tool response
    W->>W: Generate response
    W-->>API: Final state
    API-->>UI: {response, status}
    UI-->>U: Display message
```

### HITL Refund Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Customer
    participant UI as Chat UI
    participant API as FastAPI
    participant SR as Support Rep
    participant HITL as HITL Gate
    participant Admin as Admin UI
    participant CP as Checkpointer

    C->>UI: "Refund invoice 98"
    UI->>API: POST /chat
    API->>SR: Process request
    SR->>HITL: process_refund(98)
    
    Note over HITL: ⛔ INTERRUPT
    
    HITL->>CP: Save state
    API-->>UI: {status: "pending_approval"}
    UI-->>C: "Awaiting approval..."

    loop Polling
        Admin->>API: GET /admin/pending
        API-->>Admin: [{invoice_id: 98, ...}]
    end

    alt Approved
        Admin->>API: POST /admin/approve
        API->>CP: Resume graph
        CP->>HITL: Continue execution
        HITL->>HITL: Execute refund
        HITL-->>SR: Tool result
        SR-->>API: "Refund processed"
        API-->>UI: Success response
    else Rejected
        Admin->>API: POST /admin/reject
        API->>CP: Inject rejection
        CP-->>SR: Rejection message
        SR-->>API: "Refund denied"
        API-->>UI: Rejection response
    end
```

## Graph Structure

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Supervisor
    
    Supervisor --> MusicExpert: route = "music"
    Supervisor --> SupportRep: route = "support"
    
    MusicExpert --> MusicTools: needs_tools
    MusicTools --> MusicExpert: tool_result
    MusicExpert --> [*]: done
    
    SupportRep --> SafeTools: safe_operation
    SafeTools --> SupportRep: tool_result
    
    SupportRep --> HITLGate: refund_request
    
    state HITLGate {
        [*] --> Interrupted
        Interrupted --> Approved: admin_approve
        Interrupted --> Rejected: admin_reject
    }
    
    HITLGate --> RefundTools: approved
    RefundTools --> SupportRep: tool_result
    HITLGate --> SupportRep: rejected
    
    SupportRep --> [*]: done
```

## Component Details

### Supervisor Node

The supervisor acts as an intent classifier, routing requests to specialized workers.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    input["User Message"]
    supervisor{{"Supervisor<br/>GPT-4o-mini"}}
    music["Music Expert"]
    support["Support Rep"]
    
    input --> supervisor
    supervisor -->|"artist, album,<br/>song, genre"| music
    supervisor -->|"refund, invoice,<br/>account, help"| support
    
    style supervisor fill:#4a90d9,color:#fff
```

**Routing Rules:**
1. Music keywords (artist, album, song, genre) → `music`
2. Support keywords (refund, invoice, account) → `support`
3. Ambiguous follow-ups → Continue previous topic
4. Greetings → `support` (default)

### Music Expert Node

Read-only access to the music catalog. Designed for high creativity (temperature=0.7).

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `get_albums_by_artist` | Find albums by artist name |
| `get_tracks_by_artist` | Find songs by artist name |
| `check_for_songs` | Search tracks by title |
| `get_artists_by_genre` | Find artists in a genre |
| `list_genres` | Show all available genres |

### Support Rep Node

Handles authenticated customer operations. Streaming enabled for better UX.

| Tool | Approval | Purpose |
|------|----------|---------|
| `get_customer_info` | ✅ Auto | Look up customer profile |
| `get_invoice` | ✅ Auto | Retrieve invoice details |
| `process_refund` | ⚠️ HITL | Process a refund |

### Model Factory

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    env["Environment Variable"]
    factory["get_model_for_role()"]
    
    subgraph Providers
        openai["OpenAI<br/>gpt-*"]
        anthropic["Anthropic<br/>claude-*"]
        google["Google<br/>gemini-*"]
        deepseek["DeepSeek<br/>deepseek-*"]
    end
    
    env --> factory
    factory -->|"gpt-4o-mini"| openai
    factory -->|"claude-3-5-haiku"| anthropic
    factory -->|"gemini-2.0-flash"| google
    factory -->|"deepseek-chat"| deepseek
```

Provider is auto-detected from model name prefix.

## Security Considerations

### Authentication Model

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    session["Authenticated Session"]
    context["context= parameter"]
    runtime["Runtime/ToolRuntime"]
    tools["Support Tools"]
    
    session -->|"customer_id: 16"| context
    context -->|"context_schema"| runtime
    runtime -->|"scoped queries"| tools
    
    style session fill:#50c878,color:#fff
    style context fill:#4a90d9,color:#fff
```

Customer identity is injected via `context_schema`, simulating JWT-style session auth. The customer ID:
- Is **NOT** in graph state (prevents LLM manipulation)
- Comes from the application layer via `context=` parameter
- Is accessible to nodes via `Runtime[CustomerContext]`
- Is accessible to tools via `ToolRuntime[CustomerContext]` (hidden from LLM schema)

### Tool Safety Classification

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph ReadOnly["✅ Read-Only (Public Catalog)"]
        m1["get_albums_by_artist"]
        m2["get_tracks_by_artist"]
        m3["check_for_songs"]
        m4["get_artists_by_genre"]
        m5["list_genres"]
    end
    
    subgraph ScopedRead["✅ Read-Only (Scoped by customer_id)"]
        s1["get_customer_info"]
        s2["get_invoice"]
    end
    
    subgraph Sensitive["⚠️ Write Operation (HITL Required)"]
        h1["process_refund"]
    end
    
    style ReadOnly fill:#e8f5e9,color:#1b5e20
    style ScopedRead fill:#e3f2fd,color:#0d47a1
    style Sensitive fill:#ffebee,color:#b71c1c
```

## Observability

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    lg["LangGraph"]
    langsmith["LangSmith"]
    traces["Traces"]
    tokens["Token Usage"]
    costs["Cost Reports"]
    
    lg -->|"all LLM calls"| langsmith
    langsmith --> traces
    langsmith --> tokens
    tokens --> costs
    
    style langsmith fill:#7c3aed,color:#fff
```

### CI/CD Cost Tracking

Each CI run is tagged with `run-{github_run_id}` for accurate cost attribution:

```bash
# Query costs for a specific run
uv run python scripts/report_test_costs.py --tag "run-12345678"
```

## Configuration Reference

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | (required) | OpenAI API key |
| `GOOGLE_API_KEY` | (required) | For Gemini models (Music Expert default) |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | (optional) | For Claude models |
| `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` | (optional) | For DeepSeek models |
| `SUPERVISOR_MODEL` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Model for routing |
| `MUSIC_EXPERT_MODEL` | `gemini-2.0-flash` | Model for music queries |
| `SUPPORT_REP_MODEL` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Model for support |
| `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY` | (required) | LangSmith API key |
| `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2` | `true` | Enable tracing |
| `LANGCHAIN_PROJECT` | `music-store-assistant` | LangSmith project |

## Future Considerations

See [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/scarolan/music_store_assistant/issues) for known limitations:

- **#8** - CLI gets wedged after denied refund
- **#9** - Support agent can be redirected to non-music discussions
- **#10** - No built-in limits on conversation length or token usage
