TALK_TRACK.md, before:

# 🎸 Algorhythm Music Store Assistant - Demo Script

This guide walks through demonstrating the key features of the Music Store Assistant.

**Total Demo Time:** ~20 minutes (10 min frontend + 10 min backend)

---

# Part 1: Customer-Facing UI Demo (~10 minutes)

> **Audience:** Business stakeholders, product managers, non-technical interviewers
> **Goal:** Show the end-user experience and business value

## Prerequisites for Part 1

1. Start the server:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn src.api:app --reload --port 8000
   ```

2. Open two browser tabs:
   - **Customer Chat**: http://localhost:8000
   - **Admin Dashboard**: http://localhost:8000/admin

---

## Demo Flow

### 1️⃣ Music Expert Path (~3 minutes)

These queries route to the **Music Expert** agent and demonstrate catalog browsing.

#### Ask about an artist:
```
What AC/DC albums do you carry?
```
> Shows: Supervisor routes to Music Expert → calls `get_albums_by_artist` tool

#### Ask about genres:
```
What jazz artists do you have?
```
> Shows: `get_artists_by_genre` tool with genre matching

#### Search for songs:
```
Do you have any songs with "love" in the title?
```
> Shows: `check_for_songs` tool with partial matching

#### List all genres:
```
What genres of music do you carry?
```
> Shows: `list_genres` tool returning full catalog categories

#### Follow-up (tests context retention):
```
What about metal?
```
> Shows: Supervisor correctly routes continuation to Music Expert

---

### 2️⃣ Support Rep Path (~2 minutes)

These queries route to the **Support Rep** agent and demonstrate account operations.

#### Ask about profile:
```
Can you tell me about my account?
```
> Shows: Supervisor routes to Support Rep → calls `get_customer_info` tool
> Note: Customer ID is injected from authenticated session (simulated)

#### Ask about invoices:
```
Show me my recent purchases
```
> Shows: `get_invoice` tool with customer context

---

### 3️⃣ Human-in-the-Loop Refund Flow (~4 minutes) ⚠️

This is the **key demo moment** - showing the HITL approval gate.

#### Step 1: Request a refund
```
I'd like a refund for invoice 134
```
> Shows: Support Rep looks up invoice, then calls `process_refund`
> Graph **interrupts** before executing the refund tool

#### Step 2: Check Admin Dashboard
Switch to the **Admin Dashboard** tab (http://localhost:8000/admin)
- You should see the pending refund request
- Review the details (invoice ID, customer, amount)

#### Step 3: Approve or Reject
- Click **Approve** to process the refund
- Click **Reject** to deny the request

#### Step 4: See the result
Switch back to the **Customer Chat** tab
- If approved: Customer sees refund confirmation
- If rejected: Customer sees apology message

> **Talk Track:** *"This is the key pattern for production AI. You wouldn't want an AI processing refunds without oversight. LangGraph's interrupt pattern gives humans the final word on sensitive operations."*

---

## Part 1 Wrap-Up

**Talk Track:** *"So that's the customer experience — natural conversation, instant catalog lookup, and human oversight for anything sensitive like refunds. Now let me show you what's happening under the hood in LangGraph Studio."*

---

# Part 2: Engineer-Facing LangGraph Studio Demo (~10 minutes)

> **Audience:** Engineering managers, technical interviewers, AI/ML teams
> **Goal:** Show the architecture, agent reasoning, and safety guardrails

## Prerequisites for Part 2

1. Open LangGraph Studio
2. Load the project: `music_store_assistant`
3. Ensure the graph visualization is visible
4. Have the thread panel ready for conversation

---

## 2.1 Multi-Tool Orchestration (~3 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Let me show you how the agent autonomously chains tools together to solve complex queries."*

### Demo: Genre Discovery → Track Lookup

#### Step 1: Ask about genres
```
What genres of music do you have?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔀 Supervisor routes to `Music_Expert`
- 🔧 Agent calls `list_genres` tool
- 📋 Show the structured tool response (25 genres)
- ✅ Agent formats response naturally

#### Step 2: Drill into a genre
```
What tracks are in the Easy Listening genre?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🧠 *"Notice the agent is smart enough to figure out the workflow on its own"*
- 🔧 **First tool call:** `get_artists_by_genre("Easy Listening")` — gets artists
- 🔧 **Second tool call:** `get_tracks_by_artist` — iterates to get actual tracks
- 📊 Show the tool responses in sequence
- 💡 *"I didn't tell it to do two queries. It reasoned through the schema and realized it needed to chain these tools together."*

> **Key Message:** The agent understands the data model and orchestrates multiple tools autonomously.

---

## 2.2 Multi-Turn Conversation Context (~2 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Now let's see how the agent maintains context across a conversation."*

### Demo: Conversational Flow

```
I'm looking for some rock music
```
> Agent responds with rock artists

```
Tell me more about Led Zeppelin.
```
> Agent calls `get_albums_by_artist("Led Zeppelin")`

```
What are their most popular songs?
```
> Agent calls `get_tracks_by_artist("Led Zeppelin")` — knows "their" = Led Zeppelin

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 📝 Show the `messages` array growing in state
- 🔗 Highlight how the third query is ambiguous without conversation history.
- 🧠 *"The agent resolved the pronoun 'their' by looking at conversation history"*
- 🤯 It's interesting to note that the LLM did a pretty good job picking the most popular songs, without any explicit instructions on how to do that!

---

## 2.3 Hallucination Prevention (~2 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"One of the biggest risks with AI assistants is hallucination. Let me show you how we enforce strict compliance."*

### Demo: Artist Not in Catalog

```
Do you have any Michael Jackson albums?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔧 Agent calls `get_albums_by_artist("Michael Jackson")`
- 📭 Tool returns **empty results**
- ✅ Agent says "We don't carry Michael Jackson" — doesn't make up albums!
- 💡 *"The prompt says 'ONLY use tool results, NEVER use general knowledge.' It could easily hallucinate Thriller, Bad, etc., but it doesn't."*

### Demo: Off-Topic Rejection

```
What's the weather like today?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🚫 Agent declines without calling any tools
- 📋 Show the system prompt constraint: "catalog recommendations only"
- 💡 *"This is prompt engineering in action — the agent stays in its lane."*

> **Key Message:** Guardrails prevent the model from going off-script or making things up.

---

## 2.4 Human-in-the-Loop Refund Flow (~3 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Now the most important pattern for production AI: human oversight for sensitive operations."*

### Demo: HITL Interrupt in LangGraph Studio

#### Step 1: Request a refund
```
I'd like a refund for invoice 134
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔀 Supervisor routes to `Support_Rep`
- 🔧 Agent attempts to call `process_refund(98)`
- ⚠️ **Graph INTERRUPTS** — show the visual interrupt indicator
- 💡 *"The graph has `interrupt_before` on the refund tool. Execution pauses here."*

#### Step 2: Show the interrupt state
- 📊 Click on the interrupted node
- 👀 Show the pending tool call in the state
- 💡 *"This is what gets sent to our admin queue. In production, this could go to Slack, email, or a ticketing system."*

#### Step 3: Resume or reject
- ✅ Click **Continue** in LangSmith studio
- 🔄 Watch the graph continue execution
- 📋 Show the final state with refund confirmation

> **Key Message:** LangGraph's interrupt pattern gives humans the final say on sensitive operations. This is essential for compliance, fraud prevention, and customer protection.

---

## Part 2 Wrap-Up

**Talk Track:** *"So to summarize the architecture: a Supervisor LLM routes to specialized workers, each with their own tools. Read-only operations flow through automatically. Write operations like refunds hit a HITL gate. And everything is observable in LangSmith for debugging and optimization."*

---

## Bonus: LangSmith Observability (if time allows)

If the interviewer is interested in observability, switch to [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com):

1. Filter by project: `music-store-assistant`
2. Show the supervisor routing decisions
3. Drill into tool calls and token usage
4. Filter out test traces: `Tag is not test`
5. Show CI runs: `Tag = ci-cd`

**Talk Track:** *"Everything we just did is fully traced here. I can see exactly what the model was thinking, how long each step took, and what it cost. This is how you debug and optimize in production."*

---

## Anticipated Q&A Topics

Be ready for questions like:

| Topic | Quick Answer |
|-------|--------------|
| *"How do you handle auth?"* | Customer ID injected via config from JWT session — never asked from user |
| *"Why separate agents?"* | Principle of least privilege — Music Expert has no access to billing tools |
| *"What about rate limiting?"* | LangSmith tracks usage; could add token budgets per conversation |
| *"How would this scale?"* | Stateless workers + Redis checkpointer = horizontal scaling |
| *"Cost per conversation?"* | Show LangSmith traces — typically 3-5 LLM calls per turn |
| *"Why LangGraph vs raw LangChain?"* | Graph structure = visual debugging, interrupts, stateful checkpointing |
| *"What about prompt injection?"* | System prompts enforce role boundaries; could add guardrails layer |
| *"Testing strategy?"* | Pytest with mocked LLM responses; CI runs on every PR |

---

## Architecture Highlights to Mention

- **Supervisor Pattern**: Single router LLM decides which specialist handles each request
- **Tool Isolation**: Music Expert has read-only tools, Support Rep has write tools
- **HITL Gate**: Sensitive operations (refunds) require human approval
- **State Persistence**: Checkpointer enables conversation resumption after approval
- **Configurable Models**: Any agent's model can be overridden via env vars (`SUPERVISOR_MODEL`, `MUSIC_EXPERT_MODEL`, `SUPPORT_REP_MODEL`)

---

## Quick Reference: Demo Timeline

| Section | Time | Key Point |
|---------|------|-----------|
| **Part 1: UI Demo** | 10 min | Customer experience |
| Music Expert | 3 min | Catalog browsing |
| Support Rep | 2 min | Account lookups |
| HITL Refund | 4 min | ⭐ Human approval flow |
| **Part 2: Studio Demo** | 10 min | Architecture deep-dive |
| Multi-Tool | 3 min | Agent chains tools autonomously |
| Multi-Turn | 2 min | Context retention |
| Hallucination | 2 min | ⭐ Strict compliance |
| HITL in Studio | 3 min | ⭐ Interrupt visualization |

Commit message:

docs: Final consistency pass - remove all LangSmith and production-ready claims
- .github/copilot-instructions.md: Complete rewrite to focus on OTEL/Grafana
  - Changed 'production-ready' to 'demonstration'
  - Updated observability: LangSmith → OpenTelemetry + Grafana Cloud
  - Removed LangSmith env vars, test tagging, cost tracking
  - Removed scripts/report_test_costs.py references
- ARCHITECTURE.md: Updated system diagram
  - Changed 'production architecture' to 'architecture'
  - Replaced LangSmith node with Grafana Cloud in mermaid diagram
- OTEL_IMPLEMENTATION.md: Softened language
  - Changed 'production-ready patterns' to 'practical patterns'
  - Updated footer text
- TALK_TRACK.md: Updated demo script for Grafana Cloud
  - Replaced entire 'LangSmith Observability' section with Grafana Cloud
  - Updated Q&A table references
  - Changed wrap-up talk track
- DEMO_CHAT.md: Fixed section heading
  - Changed 'Part 2 - LangSmith Studio' to 'Part 2 - Additional Test Queries'

All documentation now consistently references:
- OpenTelemetry + OpenInference for instrumentation
- Grafana Cloud (Tempo + dashboards) for observability
- Demo/SE showcase positioning (not production-ready claims)
- No LangSmith or cost tracking references

TALK_TRACK.md, after:

# 🎸 Algorhythm Music Store Assistant - Demo Script

This guide walks through demonstrating the key features of the Music Store Assistant.

**Total Demo Time:** ~20 minutes (10 min frontend + 10 min backend)

---

# Part 1: Customer-Facing UI Demo (~10 minutes)

> **Audience:** Business stakeholders, product managers, non-technical interviewers
> **Goal:** Show the end-user experience and business value

## Prerequisites for Part 1

1. Start the server:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn src.api:app --reload --port 8000
   ```

2. Open two browser tabs:
   - **Customer Chat**: http://localhost:8000
   - **Admin Dashboard**: http://localhost:8000/admin

---

## Demo Flow

### 1️⃣ Music Expert Path (~3 minutes)

These queries route to the **Music Expert** agent and demonstrate catalog browsing.

#### Ask about an artist:
```
What AC/DC albums do you carry?
```
> Shows: Supervisor routes to Music Expert → calls `get_albums_by_artist` tool

#### Ask about genres:
```
What jazz artists do you have?
```
> Shows: `get_artists_by_genre` tool with genre matching

#### Search for songs:
```
Do you have any songs with "love" in the title?
```
> Shows: `check_for_songs` tool with partial matching

#### List all genres:
```
What genres of music do you carry?
```
> Shows: `list_genres` tool returning full catalog categories

#### Follow-up (tests context retention):
```
What about metal?
```
> Shows: Supervisor correctly routes continuation to Music Expert

---

### 2️⃣ Support Rep Path (~2 minutes)

These queries route to the **Support Rep** agent and demonstrate account operations.

#### Ask about profile:
```
Can you tell me about my account?
```
> Shows: Supervisor routes to Support Rep → calls `get_customer_info` tool
> Note: Customer ID is injected from authenticated session (simulated)

#### Ask about invoices:
```
Show me my recent purchases
```
> Shows: `get_invoice` tool with customer context

---

### 3️⃣ Human-in-the-Loop Refund Flow (~4 minutes) ⚠️

This is the **key demo moment** - showing the HITL approval gate.

#### Step 1: Request a refund
```
I'd like a refund for invoice 134
```
> Shows: Support Rep looks up invoice, then calls `process_refund`
> Graph **interrupts** before executing the refund tool

#### Step 2: Check Admin Dashboard
Switch to the **Admin Dashboard** tab (http://localhost:8000/admin)
- You should see the pending refund request
- Review the details (invoice ID, customer, amount)

#### Step 3: Approve or Reject
- Click **Approve** to process the refund
- Click **Reject** to deny the request

#### Step 4: See the result
Switch back to the **Customer Chat** tab
- If approved: Customer sees refund confirmation
- If rejected: Customer sees apology message

> **Talk Track:** *"This is the key pattern for production AI. You wouldn't want an AI processing refunds without oversight. LangGraph's interrupt pattern gives humans the final word on sensitive operations."*

---

## Part 1 Wrap-Up

**Talk Track:** *"So that's the customer experience — natural conversation, instant catalog lookup, and human oversight for anything sensitive like refunds. Now let me show you what's happening under the hood in LangGraph Studio."*

---

# Part 2: Engineer-Facing LangGraph Studio Demo (~10 minutes)

> **Audience:** Engineering managers, technical interviewers, AI/ML teams
> **Goal:** Show the architecture, agent reasoning, and safety guardrails

## Prerequisites for Part 2

1. Open LangGraph Studio
2. Load the project: `music_store_assistant`
3. Ensure the graph visualization is visible
4. Have the thread panel ready for conversation

---

## 2.1 Multi-Tool Orchestration (~3 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Let me show you how the agent autonomously chains tools together to solve complex queries."*

### Demo: Genre Discovery → Track Lookup

#### Step 1: Ask about genres
```
What genres of music do you have?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔀 Supervisor routes to `Music_Expert`
- 🔧 Agent calls `list_genres` tool
- 📋 Show the structured tool response (25 genres)
- ✅ Agent formats response naturally

#### Step 2: Drill into a genre
```
What tracks are in the Easy Listening genre?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🧠 *"Notice the agent is smart enough to figure out the workflow on its own"*
- 🔧 **First tool call:** `get_artists_by_genre("Easy Listening")` — gets artists
- 🔧 **Second tool call:** `get_tracks_by_artist` — iterates to get actual tracks
- 📊 Show the tool responses in sequence
- 💡 *"I didn't tell it to do two queries. It reasoned through the schema and realized it needed to chain these tools together."*

> **Key Message:** The agent understands the data model and orchestrates multiple tools autonomously.

---

## 2.2 Multi-Turn Conversation Context (~2 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Now let's see how the agent maintains context across a conversation."*

### Demo: Conversational Flow

```
I'm looking for some rock music
```
> Agent responds with rock artists

```
Tell me more about Led Zeppelin.
```
> Agent calls `get_albums_by_artist("Led Zeppelin")`

```
What are their most popular songs?
```
> Agent calls `get_tracks_by_artist("Led Zeppelin")` — knows "their" = Led Zeppelin

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 📝 Show the `messages` array growing in state
- 🔗 Highlight how the third query is ambiguous without conversation history.
- 🧠 *"The agent resolved the pronoun 'their' by looking at conversation history"*
- 🤯 It's interesting to note that the LLM did a pretty good job picking the most popular songs, without any explicit instructions on how to do that!

---

## 2.3 Hallucination Prevention (~2 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"One of the biggest risks with AI assistants is hallucination. Let me show you how we enforce strict compliance."*

### Demo: Artist Not in Catalog

```
Do you have any Michael Jackson albums?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔧 Agent calls `get_albums_by_artist("Michael Jackson")`
- 📭 Tool returns **empty results**
- ✅ Agent says "We don't carry Michael Jackson" — doesn't make up albums!
- 💡 *"The prompt says 'ONLY use tool results, NEVER use general knowledge.' It could easily hallucinate Thriller, Bad, etc., but it doesn't."*

### Demo: Off-Topic Rejection

```
What's the weather like today?
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🚫 Agent declines without calling any tools
- 📋 Show the system prompt constraint: "catalog recommendations only"
- 💡 *"This is prompt engineering in action — the agent stays in its lane."*

> **Key Message:** Guardrails prevent the model from going off-script or making things up.

---

## 2.4 Human-in-the-Loop Refund Flow (~3 minutes)

**Talk Track:** *"Now the most important pattern for production AI: human oversight for sensitive operations."*

### Demo: HITL Interrupt in LangGraph Studio

#### Step 1: Request a refund
```
I'd like a refund for invoice 134
```

**What to point out in Studio:**
- 🔀 Supervisor routes to `Support_Rep`
- 🔧 Agent attempts to call `process_refund(98)`
- ⚠️ **Graph INTERRUPTS** — show the visual interrupt indicator
- 💡 *"The graph has `interrupt_before` on the refund tool. Execution pauses here."*

#### Step 2: Show the interrupt state
- 📊 Click on the interrupted node
- 👀 Show the pending tool call in the state
- 💡 *"This is what gets sent to our admin queue. In production, this could go to Slack, email, or a ticketing system."*

#### Step 3: Resume or reject
- ✅ Click **Continue** in LangGraph Studio (or use admin dashboard at `/admin`)
- 🔄 Watch the graph continue execution
- 📋 Show the final state with refund confirmation

> **Key Message:** LangGraph's interrupt pattern gives humans the final say on sensitive operations. This is essential for compliance, fraud prevention, and customer protection.

---

## Part 2 Wrap-Up

**Talk Track:** *"So to summarize the architecture: a Supervisor LLM routes to specialized workers, each with their own tools. Read-only operations flow through automatically. Write operations like refunds hit a HITL gate. And everything is fully traced in Grafana Cloud for debugging and optimization."*

---

## Bonus: Grafana Cloud Observability (if time allows)

If the customer is interested in observability, switch to Grafana Cloud → Explore → Tempo:

1. Query: `{service.name="music-store-assistant"}`
2. Show recent traces with full conversation hierarchy
3. Click into a trace to show:
   - Supervisor routing decisions (which agent was selected)
   - Tool executions with inputs/outputs
   - LLM calls with token counts and model info
   - Complete parent-child span relationships
4. Switch to the pre-built dashboard to show:
   - Token usage and costs by agent/model
   - Performance metrics (P50/P95/P99 latency)
   - Error rates and types
   - Model distribution

**Talk Track:** *"Everything we just did is fully traced here with OpenTelemetry. I can see exactly what the model was thinking, which tools it called, how long each step took, and what it cost. This is how you debug and optimize LLM applications in production - full visibility into the entire agent execution flow."*

---

## Anticipated Q&A Topics

Be ready for questions like:

| Topic | Quick Answer |
|-------|--------------|
| *"How do you handle auth?"* | Customer ID injected via config from JWT session — never asked from user |
| *"Why separate agents?"* | Principle of least privilege — Music Expert has no access to billing tools |
| *"What about rate limiting?"* | Grafana tracks token usage; could add budgets per conversation |
| *"How would this scale?"* | Stateless workers + Redis checkpointer = horizontal scaling |
| *"Cost per conversation?"* | Show Grafana traces — typically 3-5 LLM calls per turn |
| *"Why LangGraph vs raw LangChain?"* | Graph structure = visual debugging, interrupts, stateful checkpointing |
| *"What about prompt injection?"* | System prompts enforce role boundaries; could add guardrails layer |
| *"Testing strategy?"* | Pytest with mocked LLM responses; CI runs on every PR |

---

## Architecture Highlights to Mention

- **Supervisor Pattern**: Single router LLM decides which specialist handles each request
- **Tool Isolation**: Music Expert has read-only tools, Support Rep has write tools
- **HITL Gate**: Sensitive operations (refunds) require human approval
- **State Persistence**: Checkpointer enables conversation resumption after approval
- **Configurable Models**: Any agent's model can be overridden via env vars (`SUPERVISOR_MODEL`, `MUSIC_EXPERT_MODEL`, `SUPPORT_REP_MODEL`)

---

## Quick Reference: Demo Timeline

| Section | Time | Key Point |
|---------|------|-----------|
| **Part 1: UI Demo** | 10 min | Customer experience |
| Music Expert | 3 min | Catalog browsing |
| Support Rep | 2 min | Account lookups |
| HITL Refund | 4 min | ⭐ Human approval flow |
| **Part 2: Studio Demo** | 10 min | Architecture deep-dive |
| Multi-Tool | 3 min | Agent chains tools autonomously |
| Multi-Turn | 2 min | Context retention |
| Hallucination | 2 min | ⭐ Strict compliance |
| HITL in Studio | 3 min | ⭐ Interrupt visualization |
